React Revamp: Setting up a React Environment Lesson (#24613)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: react/introduction/setting_up_a_react_environment.md

### Introduction

You now know _what_ React is, you might even have an idea of _where_ to use it, it's time to start figuring out _how_. 

This lesson is going to cover starting a new React project on your own machine, as well as some useful tools to help you along the way. We'll also explain some of the problems that may arise (and how to avoid them).

### Lesson Overview

This section contains a general overview of topics that you will learn in this lesson.

> * How React projects can be created locally.
> * Describing the difficulties when starting a React project without the appropriate tools.
> * Listing some of the popular tools and methods for scaffolding a new React project.
> * Explaining what Create React App is.
> * Setting up your workflow to develop efficiently within your new project.

Reviewer: Lesson Overviews should be much more general rather than specific. Here's our wiki page on the topic: https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/wiki/Lesson-Overviews-vs-Knowledge-Checks

Some suggestions:
```suggestion
* How React projects can be created.
* How to use Create React App.
* What are React Developer Tools.
```

Author: Have reworded the current overview and added the suggestions. Let me know your thoughts on the new ones if you'd like further changes to be made.

### Many Paths

> There are multiple ways to start using React in your projects, from attaching a set of `<script>` tags which serve React from a [CDN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_delivery_network), to robust [toolchains](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toolchain) that are highly configurable and allow for increased scalability and optimization.
> 
> Some examples of these toolchains:
> 
> * [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/)
> * [Vite's React Config](https://vitejs.dev/)
> * [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/)
> * [NextJS](https://nextjs.org/)

Reviewer: Gatsy and NextJS are more like frameworks rather than toolchains. But we could accommodate to keep these in.

```suggestion
There are multiple ways to start using React in your projects, from attaching a set of `<script>` tags which serve React from a [CDN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_delivery_network), to robust [toolchains](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toolchain) and [frameworks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Framework) that are highly configurable and allow for increased scalability and optimization.

Some examples:

* [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/)
* [Vite's React Config](https://vitejs.dev/)
* [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/)
* [NextJS](https://nextjs.org/)
```

Author: Like this a lot, will link directly to the Web Framework page for context.

Why do we need these toolchains? Can't we just make our own as we see fit?

Yes, but it's _hard_. React is a complex beast and there are many moving parts. Before you can start writing any sort of code that provides functionality, you would need to configure _at least_ the following:

* Package Management (NPM, Yarn)
* Module bundling (Webpack, Parcel)
* Compilation (Babel)
* React itself

All of this, and sometimes _much more_ is required to get a React project and development environment up and running.

### Simplifying The Process

Now that you understand what is involved with starting a React project from scratch, you can breathe a sigh of relief as you learn that we can get started with a _single terminal command_.

> This terminal command is a feature of the beginner-friendly [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/), a tool developed by the folks over at Meta which we will be using from here on out. It requires minimal configuration and provides extremely useful tools straight out of the box, allowing us to get straight to the learning. Let's get started!

Reviewer: Adding an abbreviation for Create React App here so that we can just say CRA instead of "Create React App":

```suggestion
This terminal command is a feature of the beginner-friendly [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/), or CRA for short, a tool developed by the folks over at Meta which we will be using from here on out. It requires minimal configuration and provides extremely useful tools straight out of the box, allowing us to get straight to the learning. Let's get started!
```

Author: Love it, done.

### Creating A React App

Fire up a terminal instance, `cd` over to the folder containing your projects and enter the following command:

~~~

> $ npx create-react-app my-first-react-app

Reviewer: We don't need to put the `$` sign.

Author: Done!

~~~

> Note that we use `npx` here (not `npm`), this is not a typo, `npx` is a package runner that allows the execution of packages without them being installed locally on your machine. [Check here](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-are-the-differences-between-npm-and-npx/) for more information.

Reviewer: Link text could be more descriptive here: 

```suggestion
Note that we use `npx` here (not `npm`), this is not a typo, `npx` is a package runner that allows the execution of packages without them being installed locally on your machine. [Check out this Geeks for Geeks page on differences between `npx` and `npm`](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-are-the-differences-between-npm-and-npx/) for more information.
```

Author: Committed this change.

Once this process has completed, we should confirm that all has gone well:

~~~
$ cd my-first-react-app

> $ npm start

Reviewer: Echoing feedback about `$` from above.

~~~

> Provided that everything has gone according to plan, you should be greeted with a new browser tab containing a lovely spinning React logo:

Reviewer: <details>

<summary>Everything is according to plan.</summary>

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/85733202/188388070-2553700f-ded7-48b6-a89d-3adcbe8633ec.png) 

</details>

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/103092686/189464297-48feb604-e7c6-4bf4-86b6-a9879d79ab6e.png)

> ![Create React App Starting Page](./setting_up_a_react_environment/imgs/cra_start.png)

Reviewer: Image link will need to be replaced by a statically link ([using this guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/wiki/Adding-Images-to-the-Curriculum)) after the lesson is merged.

Congratulations! You've created your first React app.

### Delving Deeper

Let's take a closer look at our new project. Inside you will find some folders, as well as `package.json`, `package-lock.json`, `.gitignore`, and `README.md` files. The `README.md` contains some useful information that you should take the time to skim through now.

The `public` folder is where all of the static assets related to your app will go. This could include images, icons, information files for the browser, and perhaps most importantly—the `index.html` file.

> Inside of the `src` folder is where you will find the code that runs your app. Let's open the `index.js` file and see if we can understand what's going on:

Reviewer: Some information about the `index.js` file. I think we should include this info; this lets us justify why we're looking at the code inside the file. 

```suggestion
Inside of the `src` folder is where you will find the code that runs your app. `index.js` is the entry point of the application. Let's open the `index.js` file and see if we can understand what's going on:
```

Author: Added this change with very slightly different wording, let me know if you'd like me to use the exact language here.

~~~js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import './index.css';
import App from './App';
import reportWebVitals from './reportWebVitals';

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <App />
  </React.StrictMode>
);

// If you want to start measuring performance in your app, pass a function
// to log results (for example: reportWebVitals(console.log))
// or send to an analytics endpoint. Learn more: https://bit.ly/CRA-vitals
reportWebVitals();
~~~

Whoa! There's quite a lot here. You are not expected to recognize much of this (if any) right now. Here's a brief rundown of what is happening here:

1. We import `React` itself, and its fellow `ReactDOM` package.
2. We import some CSS styling (you may recognize this syntax from the Webpack material).
3. We import the `App` component from `App.jsx`, so that we may place (render) it within the DOM.
4. We import the `reportWebVitals()` function, which can be used for app analytics.
5. We create a `root` object, and assign it an element from within our `index.html`.

> 6. We invoke the `render` method which is attached to our `root` object, with some very interesting looking syntax inside the parameter.

Reviewer: "inside the parameter" might be inaccurate. Can we change it to "inside the parenthesis"

7. We call the function `reportWebVitals()`, at this stage this can safely be ignored.

All of this may understandably look unlike anything you've seen up until now, but have no fear, once you've spent the time with this course, you'll know exactly what all of this does, and _much more_.

### Keeping It Clean

> Another of the useful features of Create React App is that it ships with [ESLint](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/node-path-javascript-linting). You could also set up [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) to help keep your React code as clean as can be.

Reviewer: We should probably link to the ESLint website rather than a lesson, thoughts?

Author: Agree, original thought was to keep things tied to TOP as much as possible, but with the Prettier link being an external link, it's best to keep things uniform.

### Developer Tools

As you progress with React, your projects will undoubtedly become larger and larger, and include more and more components, with increasing levels of functionality.

> When this happens, it becomes very useful to be able to track and modify aspects of your app while the page is loaded in the browser. To aid in this we can make use of a Chrome extension called [React Developer Tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en).

Reviewer: > When this happens, it becomes very useful to be able to track and modify aspects of your app while the page is loaded in the browser.

I'm unsure about this sentence in this section. Maybe it should be phrased differently. The foremost purpose of the developer tools should be debugging rather than "modify aspects of app". I'd love to hear your thoughts on this.

Author: I meant more so than actually modifying the app itself, that it could be used for changing the functionality of components (state, etc.) and to see how those changes reflect in real-time, I'll make an adjustment to make this clearer and reiterate that its main purpose is debugging.

Author: Have made the change, please let me know if this suits.

We recommend installing this and becoming comfortable with using it as early as possible to assist in debugging and improving your development experience.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

> 1. Review this material by reading through the [Getting Started](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/getting-started) page in the Create React App docs.

Reviewer: Link text suggestion: 
```suggestion
1. Review this material by reading through the [CRA's Getting Started page](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/getting-started).
```

Author: Committed this change.

> 2. Check out this [guide for React Developer Tools](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/react-developer-tools/) to begin learning how to utilize it effectively (don't worry if you can't yet understand some of the language).

Reviewer: I think the article we use in our current [React Introduction lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/node-path-javascript-react-introduction#react-developer-tools) for React Developer Tools is better than the Geeks for Geeks one: https://www.pluralsight.com/guides/debugging-components-with-react-developer-tools

Author: Agreed, this article is far better structured, have made the change and committed.

> 3. Try to clean up your `my-first-react-app` project so that it no longer displays the default page, see if you can get it to display a "Hello, World!" message instead.

Reviewer: Like this assignment a lot.

</div>

### Knowledge Check

This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson on your own. If you’re having trouble answering a question, click it and review the material it links to.

* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#many-paths">What are some of the ways we can start a new React project?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#many-paths">Why should we initially be using premade toolchains instead of making our own?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#simplifying-the-process">What is Create React App, why would we use it?</a>

> * <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#creating-a-react-app">What command can we run to Create a new React app?</a>
> * <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#delving-deeper">What might we find in the `public` folder?</a>
> * <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#delving-deeper">What might we find in the `src` folder?</a>

Reviewer: Wording suggestions: 

```suggestion
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#creating-a-react-app">What command can we run to scaffold a new React app using CRA?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#delving-deeper">What is in the `public` folder?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#delving-deeper">What is in the `src` folder?</a>
```

Author: Committed this change.
